The Moon is a barren, rocky world without air and water. It has dark lava plain on its surface. The Moon is filled wit craters. It has no light of its own. It gets its light from the Sun. The Moo keeps changing its shape as it moves round the Earth. It spins on its axis in 27.3 days stars were named after the Edwin Aldrin were the first ones to set their foot on the Moon on 21 July 1969 They reached the Moon in their space craft named Apollo II.
The sun is a huge ball of gases. It has a diameter of 1,392,000 km. It is so huge that it can hold millions of planets inside it. The Sun is mainly made up of hydrogen and helium gas. The surface of the Sun is known as the photosphere. The photosphere is surrounded by a thin layer of gas known as the chromospheres. Without the Sun, there would be no life on Earth. There would be no plants, no animals and no human beings. As, all the living things on Earth get their energy from the Sun for their survival.
The Solar System consists of the Sun Moon and Planets. It also consists of comets, meteoroids and asteroids. The Sun is the largest member of the Solar System. In order of distance from the Sun, the planets are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto; the dwarf planet. The Sun is at the centre of the Solar System and the planets, asteroids, comets and meteoroids revolve around it.
The Mahabharata is a story about a great battle between the Kauravas and the Pandavas. The battle was fought in Kurukshetra near Delhi. Many kings and princes took part in the battle. The Pandavas defeated the Kauravas. The Bhagvad Gita is a holy book of the Hindus. It is a part of the Mahabharata. Then, Lord Rama, with the help of It is a book of collection of teachings of Lord Krishna to Arjuna in the battlefield. It is the longest epic in the world.
The Ramayana is a story of Lord Rama written by the SageValmiki. Lord Rama, the prince of Ayodhya, in order to help his father Dasharatha went to exile for fourteen years. His wife, Sita and his younger brother Lakshmana also went with him. He went through many difficulties in the forest. One day Ravana, the king of Lanka carried away Sita with him. Then, Lord Rama, with the help of Hanumana, defeated and killed Ravana; Sita, Rama and Lakshmana returned to Ayod hya after their exile.
The Taj Mahal is a beautiful monument built in 1631 by an Emperor named Shah Jahan in memory of his wife Mumtaz Mahal. It is situated on the banks of river Yamuna at Agra. It looks beautiful in the moonlight. The Taj Mahal is made up of white marble. In front of the monument, there is a beautiful garden known as the Charbagh. Inside the monument, there are two tombs. These tombs are of Shah Jahan and his wife Mumtaz Mahal. The Taj Mahal is considered as one of the Seven Wonders of the World. Many tourists come to see this beautiful structure from different parts of the world.
Delhi is the capital of India. It is situated on the banks of the river Yamuna. It is surrounded by Haryanaand Uttar Pradesh. It has some of the famous buildings and monuments such as the Qutub Minar, Reu Fort, Lotus Temple, Akshardham Temple etc. Some of the monuments are hundreds of years old. Apart from this, there is the Parliament House, the Central Secretariat and the famous Connaught place. Delhi is a beautiful city. But, it is becoming very crowded and polluted. I love Delhi a lot.
A snake charmer is a person who moves the streets with different types of the banks of the river Yamuna. It is snakes in his basket. He goes from one place to another to show various types of snakes and their tricks. He carries a pipe with which he plays music and snakes dance to his tune. He usually wears a colourful dress. The job of a snake charmer is quite dangerous. Some snakes are quite poisonous and can even bite him. It is not an easy task to catch and train them for the shows.
A street beggar can be seen everywhere; at the bus stop, railway stations, religious places, markets etc. Some beggars are crippled, lame and some are blind. They are unable to earn their livelihood. Whereas some are healthy and they do not deserve our sympathy. We should see that they take up some profession. They should not be allowed to beg. On my way to school I see a beggar daily. He wears old rags. He is partially blind. I feel pity seeing him but I can’t help it I can only pray to God to help him to earn his livelihood.
The doctor is a person who looks after the sick people and prescribes medicines so that the patient recovers fast. In order to become a doctor, a person has to study medicine. Doctors lead a hard life. Their life is very busy. They get up early in the morning and go to the hospital. They work without taking a break. They always remain polite so that patients feel comfortable with them. Since doctors work so hard we must realise their value.
A hawker is a person who moves from one place to another and sell their goods, by shouting on the streets. They work hard throughout the day. They move on the street on their bicycle and sometimes on foot and sell their products. We can see hawkers everywhere. They move everywhere selling their goods without caring about the weather. There is a hawker who sells vegetables on his bicycle in our locality. His name is Manoj. He brings fresh vegetables at a very reasonable price. He is a nice and an honest hawker.
India is an agricultural country. Most of the people live in villages and are farmers. They grow cereals, pulses, vegetables and fruits. The farmers lead a tough life. They get up early in the morning and go to the fields. They stay and work on the farm late till evening. The farmers usually live in kuchcha houses. Though, they work hard they remain poor. Farmers eat simple food; wear simple clothes and rear animals like cows, buffaloes and oxen. Without them there would be no cereals for us to eat. They play an important role in the growth and economy of a country.
The natural mechanisms of the Earth that had been functioning in sync since the formation of the Earth are lying in disarray. This can be attributed to the exploitation of natural resources by humans. We, occupying the topmost strata on the ecological pyramid, should be conscious of the environment. Pollution has been a burning issue for the last 100 years, but little has been done to take steps towards rebuilding our ecosystem and saving it from the brink of collapse.
The Earth is in continuous motion; the principles of nature teach us that we must never disrupt the harmony of the various levels of the ecosystem. Meddling with natural processes can have disastrous long term effects that will push the entire Earth towards mass destruction. Pollutants must be identified and effectively dealt with to pull off a last saving grace for the sake of our co-habitants. It must be kept in mind that pollutants are not always toxic substances. Any unwanted substance that can disrupt the functioning of a natural system can be categorized as a pollutant.
For improving and learning professional skills, the computer helps students a lot. In the 21st century, people are seemed to be interested in more advanced computers with lighter, smaller, and powerful computers with high speed and accuracy. Not only school and office work purposes, but also computers can be used to control traffic, forecasting weather, educational and medical purposes, guidance and designing of spacecraft, operation purposes, examination purposes, detection of crime, and the list goes on. With the advanced necessities and demands of the people, Computer has also developed with time providing and satisfying us with all the needs.
Computers are of incredible use in the field of Education. It assists instructors with planning introductions for workshops; students think it’s simple to work on their projects from their homes utilizing a computer. Every single money related exchange, representative record keeping, business forms are done through computers. Computers are utilized while directing clinical methods like X-rays, CT scans, MRI examine, and so forth. PCs are an aid to the defense office as they help identify approaching rockets, diagnosing bombs in this way help in sparing lives.
Best Friends support each other in all that they do. The best friends are Frank, open, and blunt. My best friend is Rishi. I can’t recall when we became friends who show to what extent we have been best friends.
I know him from my childhood and have lots of memories together. We do nearly everything together, understand each other so well, and we are consistently there to hear each other out, and comfort each other when one is sad and not feeling great.
Friendship is an extraordinary gift in anyone’s life. An individual gets to know various individuals during their life venture. Among these, we find types of people who have similar choices of taste and nature. We become close to that person and spend more time together. Step by step, a sort of relationship creates, which ends up leaving dependable impressions throughout one’s life.
If we are ever to sit and count our blessings, we would not be able to ignore the importance a teacher has or had in our lives. Teachers are also often compared to the building blocks of our society who help us lay a firm foundation of knowledge and wisdom, on which we further build our lives and career. This esteemed profession is often counted as one of the most respectable, among others because it is the teachers who work in others’ growth. Someone can also be a teacher by nature and not by profession for having personality qualities like enriching others with knowledge and guiding them.Paragraph On Teacher for Kids
The devotion of a teacher in the nation’s development is mention-worthy, as good teachers are essential assets. The presence of teachers has been from pre-historic society. In the beginning, when one of very good at something, they were requested by the other to teach them about it in exchange for something (Gurudakshina was given as per the wish of the teacher at the end of training or teaching).
Teachers help students overcome fear and discover each student’s potential, sometimes even before they can themselves know. Teachers are often called the guardian angels of the society, for they bear all qualities of a friend, guide, and philosopher. A teacher can feel immense pride and personal success in the success of their students. A good teacher can look beyond a student’s academic success and help them find a path to fulfill their purpose of life.
Cleanliness is a boon, and if we practice cleanliness, greater things are coming our way. Cleanliness is not just about keeping oneself and his home clean; it is also about keeping our environment clean. By keeping our environment clean, we can avoid the spread of germs because germs throw on the litter, making us sick. Some common diseases are cholera, hepatitis, flu.
After practicing cleanliness, we will notice some vivid changes in us, too, like we will be healthier and fit, and we will not run out of energy will doing strenuous jobs. In addition to these physical benefits, we will also achieve peace of mind, and our concentration level will also increase. We will also help spread positive thoughts and positive vibes wherever we go, and to whomever, we speak.
India is one of the youngest superpowers in the world. The National bird of India is the peacock, which has a very colourful and beautiful tail. The national flower of India is Lotus. Lotus comes in many colours, white and pink being prominent. The National animal of India is the Royal Bengal tiger. It is very powerful and majestic to look at. The national anthem of India is ‘Jana Gana Mana.’ Its approximate playing time is 52 seconds. The national song of India is Vande Mataram, written by Bankimchandra Chatterji and was sung in the 1896 session of the Indian National Congress. The national insects of India are the Papilionidae or swallowtails. The national aquatic animal of India is South Asian Dolphin. The national reptile of India is King Cobra, also known as the ‘king of snakes. The national fruit of India is Mango, also called the ‘King of Fruits.’
